
 
 
 
 Academics - University of Delhi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Skip to navigation 
 Skip to content 
 
   
 
     
 
 UIC •     CIC •   DUWA •     DU Radio •     DU Mail •     Contact Us • 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 Useful Links  
 
 
 
 
 Students  
 
 Academic Resources ( Previous Year Question Papers etc.) Hostels   Student Activities  -  NSS ,  NCC  &  Sports   DUSU   Equal Opportunity Cell  Opportunities / Scholarships Forms Anti-Ragging SC/ST Student Grievance Foreign Students' Registry Special Links - 
 
 Miscellaneous Online Fee Payment 
 Online Fee Payment -  For Under-Graduate Second and Third Year Students ,  For Post-Graduate Second and Third Year Students 
 Online Application to obtain Degree in Advance of Annual Convocation 
 
   Student Teacher Corner 
 
 
 Staff  
 
 Jobs & Opportunities Notifications   Statutory Bodies Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) Prevention of Sexual Harassment Forms Finance Financial Estimates/Annual Accounts/Expenditure Details/ Notifications/Minutes/Rules/E-procurement Integrity Pledge-Central Vigilance Commission 
 
 
 Visitors  
 
 Tenders and Quotations Rules and Policies Guidelines and Notifications RTI   National Voters' Service Portal   Alumni     Alumni - Related Forms Alumni - Related ExamBranch Service Windows How to get your original degree Connect to India Programme 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 Home Academics       Faculties & Departments Centres / Institutes Campus of Open Learning Colleges International Relations Virtual Learning Non-Collegiate Women's Education Board Academic Calendar University Handbooks   Syllabi     Under-Graduate Post-Graduate M.Phil. Other Courses   Research     Data-Ph.D. Scholars Research Council Research Profile Research Highlights/Achievements Ph.D. Course Work Innovations@DU Intellectual Property Rights Shodhganga - Thesis Repository Doctoral Research Research Ordinances and Guidelines Research Opportunities Technology Transfer cases Travel Grants to College Teachers R&D Grants to Faculty DU/DST Purse Grants Awards and Distinctions Major Areas of Research Vice Chancellor Student Fund   Libraries     DU Library System Search for Books (Web OPAC) Search for Articles e-Resources (A - Z)  Subject-wise e-Resources DU e-Journals Institutional Repository @DU  Information Literacy Chat with Librarian   Amenities     Central Placement  Computer Centre Conference Centre Delhi University Women's Association Directorate of Hindi Medium Implementation Engineering Office Foreign Students' Registry  Gandhi Bhawan Health Centre Hostels International Guest House Rajbhasha Cell University Guest House University Press University Radio (DUCR 90.4)   Alumni Administration     Vice Chancellor Pro Vice Chancellor Director South Campus Dean of Colleges Director, Campus of Open Learning Treasurer Proctor Registrar Finance Officer Chief Vigilance Officer Librarian Deans   Finance Tenders     Departments / Centres / Hostels Colleges Engineering Department General Branch e-Procurement Tenders Archive 
 
 
 
 
 
 You are here:  Home   »  Academics  
 
 
 Academics   
 
 
 The University of Delhi is a premier university of the Country and is known for its high  standards in teaching & research and attracts  eminent scholars to  its faculty. It  was  established in  1922 as a unitary, teaching and residential  university by an act of the Central Legislative Assembly.  Ever since its inception, a strong commitment to excellence in teaching and research has made the University of Delhi a role-model and path-setter for other universities in the Country. Its rich academic tradition has always attracted the most talented students who later on made important contributions to the society. 
 The University had a modest beginning with just three colleges (St.  Stephen’s   College founded in 1881, Hindu College founded in 1899 and Ramjas College founded in 1917), two faculties (Arts and Science) and about 750 students. In October 1933, the University   offices and the Library shifted to the Viceregal Lodge Estate, and till today this site houses the offices of the main functionaries of the University. The University has grown into one of the largest universities in India. At present, there are 16 faculties, 86 academic departments, 77   colleges  and 5  other  recognised   institutes  spread all over the city with 132435 regular students  (UG: 114494,PG:17941) and 261169 students (UG:258831,PG:2338) in non-formal education programme. Five Departments namely Chemistry, Geology, Zoology, Sociology and History have been awarded the status of the Centres of Advanced Studies. These Centres of Advanced Studies have carved a niche for themselves as centres of excellence in teaching and research in their respective areas. In addition, a good number of University departments are also receiving   grants under   the Special Assistance Programme of the UGC in recognition of their outstanding academic work. 10 Departments (Germanic & Romance Studies, Hindi, Persian, Geography, Music, East Asian Studies, Anthropology, Mathematics, B.R.Ambedkar, M. I.L.) are getting grants under DRS, 2 Departments (Buddhist Studies, English) are getting grants under DSA, 3 Departments (English, Buddhist Studies, Social Work) are getting grants under AISHSS and 3 Departments (African Studies, East Asian Studies, Developing Countries Research Centre) are getting grants under Area Studies Programmes. Department of Adult, Continuing Education and Extension and Women’s Studies & Development Centre of the University are also getting special funding from UGC. The University today boasts of as many as 15 big libraries apart from libraries in Colleges.           
         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Faculties & Departments 
 
 
 Applied Social Sciences & Humanities 
 
 
 Arts 
 
 
 Commerce & Business Studies 
 
 
 Education 
 
 
 Interdisciplinary & Applied Sciences 
 
 
 Law 
 
 
 Management Studies 
 
 
 Mathematical Sciences 
 
 
 Medical Sciences 
 
 
 Music & Fine Arts 
 
 
 Open Learning 
 
 
 Science 
 
 
 Social Sciences 
 
 
 Technology 
 
 
 Affiliated Faculties 
 
 
 Centres / Institutes 
 
 
  Agricultural Economics Research Centre 
 
 
 Amar Jyoti Institute of Physiotherapy  
 
 
 Centre for Innovation in Infectious Disease Research, Education and Training (CIIDRET) 
 
 
 Centre for Professional Development in Higher Education 
 
 
 Delhi School Of Economics 
 
 
 Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Centre For Biomedical Research 
 
 
 D.S. Kothari Centre For Science, Ethics and Education 
 
 
  	 Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS)  
 
 
 Institute of Lifelong Learning 
 
 
 
 Campus of Open Learning 
 
 Colleges 
 
 
 List of Colleges  
 
 
 
 International Relations 
 
 
 Virtual Learning 
 
 
 Non-Collegiate Women's Education Board 
 
 
 Academic Calendar 
 
 
 University Handbooks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search:     
 
 
                     
 
 
 Spotlight 

     
 
 
 
 Advt. Estab.IV/264/2017 for the post of Deputy Registrar (Deputation) (Last Date extended upto 16.11.2017) 
 
 
		  posted on: Oct 27, 2017
	 
 
 
 
 Guidelines for Purchase through GeM for University of Delhi 
 
 
		  posted on: Oct 27, 2017
	 
 
 
 
 Vigilance Awareness Week 2017 
 
 
		  posted on: Oct 27, 2017
	 
 
 
 
 Advt. No. Estab.IV/265/2017 for the post of Director, VPCI 
 
 
		  posted on: Oct 25, 2017
	 
 
 
 
 94th Annual Convocation 
 
 
		  posted on: Oct 12, 2017
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lecture Series
     
 
 
 
 More Lectures 
 
 
		  posted on: Feb 26, 2014
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 In Media 

     
 
 
 
 DSSW retains the 2nd position in nationwide survey by Outlook magazine 
 
 
		  posted on: Jun 29, 2016
	 
 
 
 
 Hear them out! Varsity radio gives DU students platform to air views - Times of India  
 
 
		  posted on: Apr 28, 2016
	 
 
 
 
 Breaking Ice With Seniors to be Smooth Affair for Delhi University Freshers 
 
 
		  posted on: Jul 17, 2015
	 
 
 
 
 Delhi University puts in place measures to prevent ragging 
 
 
		  posted on: Jul 17, 2015
	 
 
 
 
 Delhi University students complete skill development courses under NSDC; 70% of the certified students get placement in leading financial institutes 
 
 
		  posted on: Jun 29, 2015
	 
 
 
 
 
 
 Examinations & Results 

     
 Examinations & Results 
 
 
 Helpline 

     
   Info Centre   155215  (Without any precode)  011-27006900  (Multilines)  (9a.m - 5p.m)  (Monday to Friday)    Email:infocentre@du.ac.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 Previous page:  Home 
 Next page:  Faculties & Departments 
 
 
 
 
 
 ↑ 
 
 
 Follow us on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
